welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to the show
I am honored to be joined by Rob Jepsen
today Rob is the founder and CEO X
buoyant a cell's leadership technology
platform committed to helping
organizations develop world-class sales
leaders exploit X not X wanes technology
drives transformation across sales teams
by powering one-to-one meetings with
sales leaders and salespeople Rob's been
recognized by the American Business
Awards with a whopping 17 gold and
silver stevie awards and for the past
seven consecutive years Rob's been the
highest rated speaker in a large
enterprise track at the largest
technology conference in the world
Dreamforce
+ Rob's trained over 1,000 organizations
is a featured speaker at leading sales
events worldwide
Rob welcome to the show man how you
doing it awesome Sam thanks for having
me I appreciate the intro and it's good
to be a junior show I love what you're
doing and I'm excited to talk about how
uh how you throw gas on a fire and make
a burn baby love it dude
cheers man excited to chat today so
really rope it comes down to three
things on our show we want to know your
story we want to know your top business
growth tips and you want to know your
top digital marketing strategies just
marketing strategies in general that
have got you and your business to where
you are today so first things first we'd
love to know a bit about your story Rob
so some of the key places that you've
worked and kind of where you grew up
since leaving school or college some of
the main businesses you've been involved
in and what you learn along the way up
until now my friend I'm telling you man
I my story's simple Sam I suck at most
things and holy yeah I'm suck at most
things pretty good that the thing we'll
talk about and I took me a while to find
it when I was in college I was one of
those guys that you know I I didn't know
what to do I switched my major lots of
times and you know my dad was an
engineer yeah I guess one of the things
that's helped me as as a young boy my
dad is was on the engineering team he
ran research and development for Hewlett
Packard's printer division and I was
around when he invented the laser
printer and oh wow yeah and so he I
watched him go through
just you know how printers were made and
I'm not watch big giant printers he had
this idea that you could have a printer
on a desktop this tells you how old I am
he was told by Dave Hewlett and Bill
Packard we are a mainframe computer and
a calculator company we don't think
there's a printer business at Hewlett
Packard right now literally that's what
he was told
yeah oh yes okay obviously obviously
that change that change do that invent
stuff and I always thought why aren't
you getting more of the take you're
doing this for somebody else and so
that's one of the reasons that the young
person I was like I don't want to be a
loner I want to be an owner and I see
yeah and so I was around that and I
watched you know smart people invent
stuff for larger organizations and so I
and the young age I was always hustling
you know and finding ways to sell things
and and it and I don't know it's just
kind of the way I was wired I love the
competition as well I was always an
athlete I played sports I was a
basketball player and and I got into
college my dad wanted me to take
engineering classes and I found that
very quickly I hated engineering right I
just wasn't smart enough to do all that
physics and stuff like that it just
wasn't me and then I looked at other
things I looked at accounting because
that was the high for that university I
was at their number one program they
were already their number three
accounting school in the nation so I'll
get the best degree I can get here and I
hated that it I realized that just made
me feel like a scorekeeper accounts were
just scorekeepers and I was like I want
to be in the game man I don't want to be
on the sidelines keepin score for other
people and go to I bounced and I
couldn't get a sales degree there was no
such thing at the time I ended up
gravitating to marketing and I got a
marketing degree and and I guess what
was a really turning point for me was I
had my senior year in college I had
applied to cut to law school and I was
accepted to a top law school I thought I
was gonna be an attorney and I was asked
to rep I was asked to represent my
college at a national competition where
we competed against their what they
thought were the top 50 schools from the
United States and they gave us a
business case and I would represented
the marketing school as the marketing
student and we won we won the whole
thing
and I was like wow I just out competed
the other top 50 schools in the nation
like why am I gonna go to law school
when you know what
came to coming up with an idea and
commercializing it well long story I
won't bore you with it it made me
realize I don't want to go and spend a
whole bunch of years going through just
doing BS for other companies I said I
want to find a way that I can use my
skills fast so I decided not to go to
law school I found a privately held
company that was small that I would get
myself into a job that I probably wasn't
qualified for and I had to figure out
how to sell stuff fast and the first
thing they put me into a sales I'd never
sold anything and shorebirds a story I
was pretty successful that led me into
enterprise sales and and I very quickly
realized the closest thing to being a
professional athlete was being a
salesperson because one person wins and
everybody else loses and that's that
okay yeah and I found that the harder I
work to the better I prepared the better
I performed in the environment of the
sales arena very very quickly I realized
that was home and that's why I bounced
so much in college because I was born to
be a salesperson
and and I love it so I made my career
about how do you figure out how sales
works because for a long time in the
last ten years sales has become a lot
more developed it's become a lot more
mainstream it's not seen as a scumbag if
your sales person universities are
teaching sales now I still say sales is
the most important job in any business
but it's still the least developed but
in the last 10 years that's changed
completely yeah so so you know I went to
a couple privately held companies and I
learned really fast that equity was what
it was about you want to be in a spot
where if you're gonna be in sales sales
drives the valuation of a company you
better be the one because I remember the
first time I was as a young dude a
company sold and and I was one of the
top sales guys as a young young guy out
selling guys 15 20 years older than me
let's dive into that quickly Rob how did
you make that happen so I know you said
it sounds like you went from accounts to
law to marketing to a startup go into
sales yeah ramping up the game realized
that you could utilize some of your
sports background in competitiveness
into this and then you said you're the
number one sales guy and was this in
enterprise sales or up top so we were so
we were so on enterprise software to
financial institutions for for needs
based financial plan
and so there was one person who had all
the named accounts and then after that
this young guy that yeah it's funny so
if you have a guy that's pretty much two
years out of college hasn't ever sold
enterprise software comes in and sells
himself into a job it shouldn't have
what territory do you give that kid you
give them the shittiest territory right
you give him the word right so here
here's the territory I got we're selling
to financial situations and so they gave
me the New England states of the United
States which is cool but they took away
New York City in Boston so I didn't get
those two places which are the only two
places that has anything and and then
they said by the way the fastest that
anybody has ever come on the company and
got their first deal is seven months
that's the record okay am i I gotta beat
that and so you know my very first deal
was with the Hartford life insurance
company and and I did that deal in four
and a half months and so he broke the
record and so yeah that's what we did it
was just it was enterprise software for
large financial situations so they could
do financial planning for people and it
was a it was an expert system that would
recommend products based on what their
risk tolerances and stuff like that was
it was in the it was in the late 90s now
it would be I'm sure they have cooler AI
products now but back then we were the
coolest game in town good as well I was
I was selling expert systems as a young
person early in my career and I'm super
lucky for that that train that gave me
opportunities that set me up for the
rest of my career awesome and can you
talk us a little bit three so that cell
cycle they said was typically seven
months but you took it down to four and
a half there any secrets or strategies
that you could share with us on how you
made that happen I wish I could tell you
is because I was an expert government
was my first enterprise job yeah and so
part of it was hustle part of it was I I
happened to have good timing
I mean I'm I've been in this game long
enough to know that my very first win
that I ever had with the Hartford life
insurance company I was fortunate Sam I
was fortunate but but I will tell you
this here's something that's interesting
that was my first enterprise deal it was
over 20 years ago that guy that bought
for me is still a dear friend to this
day oh really I mean yeah we became good
friends then and that's part of it I
mean I was just really authentic
I knew what I knew and I knew what I
didn't know and and I back then
relationship selling is probably more
important than it is now because now
it's about what you can do for people
and back then I I made it about me being
this relationship guy they could trust
and we hit it off and he found a way to
work with us and and we we've been
friends ever since like you when he
comes do you try to go skiing he comes
to my house and 20 years later so on
that one I wish I could tell you that I
was like the king of process I was and I
was I was a hustler I guess that's a
first laws if there's one thing that
I've always my whole career Sam I've
said I'm not gonna get out work there
gonna be people who have more experience
than me there's gonna be people are
smarter easily be smarter than me I'm
never the smartest person in the room
but I can outwork you and I worked super
hard I was important to me that I was I
was out working I left nothing to chance
and and that thing that was one of the
reasons I've had success i but that
company got sold after me being there
two years and I'll tell you what pissed
me off is I had kegels that really drove
the valuation of the company but my baby
position was so small like I was like
the Commission's that I got in this deal
are nothing compared to what the equity
in the company is worth and so that was
like a big aha moment for me I was like
I am going to be an owner not a loner
I've said that to you before and and
that started me going to a few different
companies I've worked for a blend of
privately held companies and publicly
held companies and I had an opportunity
to work with a couple of other companies
that wasn't pure startup they were kind
of in the middle and I got to see them
get acquired and harvested and and I had
a mentor telling me Rob because I told
him I said I think sales is gonna become
really big I think it's gonna be
important I've realized that sales is
what drives valuations I've realized
sales is what drives exits I said I
think that sales is going to become more
mainstream and I member tell amendment
or I want to become one of the people
that helps drive the sales profession
you told me then you got to do one thing
you got to stop working for these
privately held ones that you're just
trying to exit if you want to do that
they're gonna have to have big company
experience because that's too important
it's leading a team of three to five to
ten salespeople is way different than
leading a team of a thousand salespeople
and so he encouraged me to find a big
one and I did I I was recruited to and
asked to join a large financial
institution and I ended up being the
head of sales for the whole organization
and I led a team of roughly a thousand
salespeople across seven different lines
of business how how did you transition
from working in startups and fairly
small companies it was a huge company
big it's even it's even it's even worse
Sam because I've always been a tech guy
and this was a financial student I know
nothing about commercial banking zip
none of it and you won't know why they
recruited me I'd sold my tech to them
and they came back to me and said the
way you sold us we we are hard to sell
to and we love how you sold us we want
you to come in and have all of our
people sell to us the way you say we
want all of our rep selling the way you
sold us know at that point in my career
I had really gotten good at process I'd
figured out that process was a big deal
and we can talk about that when we start
talking about the other parts but I I
was fortunate I I had other good mentors
along the way Sam I
Rick page you wrote a book hope is not a
strategy put his arm around me Gary
Rhodes put his arm around me John Hyde
put it on I had my conic guys like
taking interest in me at a young age and
it opened doors and but yeah I had to
make a transition and I remember when
this big company hired me I said well
you know it took him almost a year to
get me to say yes because I was so
afraid of banking because I just didn't
know it and also big company and when I
got ready to say yes I said we have one
condition you have to give us a three or
commit and I thought I was signing my
life was a three-year commit I said Rob
it's gonna take us over a year just to
teach you to speak our language and it
was right so that three are committed up
being a ten year stop because I ended up
and join it so much and I guess the
biggest lesson that I learned there Sam
was to diagnose before you prescribe so
many leaders come in and they're so it's
such a hurry to put their thumbprint on
the job they violate Jepsen's first law
of sales leadership and Jefferson's
first law of sales leadership is this
leaders on pedestals make easy targets
and as soon as you put yourself up on a
pedestal people want to knock you down
and so I I took the first six months
taking it in you know speaking doing
some motivational stuff putting in a few
process related things but mostly
learning shutting up and learning and
that was the big thing was you know be
willing to learn after 90 days I think I
had it figured out what I wanted to do
but then I needed that next 90 days to
make sure I won over people so I've had
the Allies to have support for what I
wanted my initiatives to be and it was
huge fact the other thing that the guy
who hired me said to me Sam when I said
I asked him what's gonna be the hardest
part of this job and he said learning
how to navigate big company politics say
cuz you're he said you're kind of a
lightning rod you speak your mind and
around here that can get your throat
slit yeah man I mean I love what you
just said
moving back when you set diagnosed
before you prescribed that's that's
awesome I mean that's that's something
that's key I think for anyone that's
selling anything it is and and as a
leader you have to do that if you come
in and just try and rattle cages you're
gonna create enemies instead of friends
and just like a salesperson I've always
had the analogy in my mind Sam that as a
salesperson we're an airplane on a
runway got this runway and when we first
call someone and we get them on the
phone
you got a runway that's maybe five
minutes long Jay Max and the question is
can you extend that runway can you turn
five minutes into ten minutes can you
turn ten minutes into twenty minutes and
then when it's done they're like man I
need more time with that guy I think the
same thing as a leader how do you extend
the runway and get people to jump on
board with what you're doing I I think
leading and selling are really not that
different if you understand the
components of it they're obviously
different in how you use them but the
skills required pretty much the same
thing great stuff and Rob could you
share any insights this is something I
asked jet blunt about a little while
back on transitioning from let's say
transactional based selling to
enterprise based selling because there's
a big difference right how do you make a
transition well first of all I wouldn't
say that one's better than the other
I mean there
totally different and they're not for
everyone I I talked to lots of people
that really get excited about one call
closes or to call closes and I get
someone on the phone and I can get their
deal closed today or worst case in three
days right and Enterprise you're looking
a fast enterprise sales cell cycle is
gonna be four months that's fast and we
that XY have a lot of enterprise
customers that have taken them in some
cases eighteen months to get a deal done
and so that's the first thing I say is
one is not better than the other I would
tell a salesperson you got to identify
which one you want because yeah
transactional is great because it gets
cash in Fast Enterprise is great because
frankly those are usually big bigger
deals and and a lot of people want those
so so how do we well I guess might help
you understand what's your question like
the first question what how do you move
from one the other what's the big
exactly I mean like you're saying
transaction was usually pretty quick few
days few weeks perhaps up to a month in
terms of the sales cycle and you've got
to get to the point fast and
transactional except transactional you
have got to make sure that you
understand how you help a there's like
two two things that I think are most
important and I'll be able to get your
take on this because I have a lot of
respect for you perspective number one
is how do you create value it's really
important for you to understand that and
you need to be able to get to those
things really really fast and the other
one is how do you how do you learn what
someone prioritizes and because that's
the other thing people I'm thinking when
I was at this Bank there's large banks
and I'm gonna tell you a funny story it
was a transactional sale okay a lot of
people don't realize that banks are very
sophisticated b2b sales teams you're
selling financial products to help CFOs
and controllers run businesses right
sure we this goes back in the day when
check scanning technology was just
coming live okay until you could have a
remote capture tool you could scan
checks get the money in the account
instantly you didn't have to worry about
mailing checks back and forth and having
clear their Federal Reserve and come
back okay that period of time that
business used to have to wait to get
there
it was called float okay so this company
was one of the ones that invented this
technology it was super cool we're
taking out I'm on a sales call with one
of our officers ready for this he's
sitting down you're the business owner
I'm the sales guy this guy was trained
on what to talk about and he has what he
thinks is a value point it's eliminating
float getting your money faster
okay he doesn't pry it he doesn't have
any questions he comes in and swings the
float hammer he's hammering float like
crazy and I'm watching this customer his
customers dying to get a word in saying
he's dying to get a word in and finally
when my sales rep stops speaking he
spits it eyes like float doesn't affect
my business float doesn't affect my
business at all and there's really only
one good answer that I don't we'll talk
about that right now what my rep said
was he lead forward put his hands was
well then clearly you don't know how to
calculate the financial impact to float
if you don't think it affects your
business yeah did you get that deal we
got escorted out surprisingly yeah we
did not get that deal that's a great
story because that's a transactional
sale and if we assume what someone
prioritizes you're probably not gonna
get the business so those are the two
things in trans actually you've got to
get really good at helping people
prioritize to you what matters and
number two you've got to be able to be
very fluent inside that use of situation
so I come back to use of situations
because that makes it easy for me to
know priorities and how value stream I'd
love to get your thoughts on something
Rob as well whilst we run this
transactional sales update so for
example in our scenario web choice we're
a digital marketing company so when I'm
speaking to new prospects about let's
say for example a new website and so
someone might a new one a new website up
be asking about their goals and
objectives for example they might be
wanting a redesign and I'll say look
often when I speak to customers they
want to redesign for a number of reasons
that might be to drive more leads to
improve their brand positioning or to
showcase a new service that they may
have or to add new elements like
e-commerce online trading and is it one
of these that is it one of these the
right reasons or is it something else so
I'll go through common reasons of why
they want to do it would you say that's
a good practice Rob that
kind of give them options rather than
home them in on it on a certain thing so
especially so there's a lot of different
company communication styles Sam and I
the reason I like what you just said is
if you don't know someone very well you
need to assume that their person you're
talking to as a driver because that's
the business case that means they know
where they want to go and they don't
care much what you as a vendor think
right they don't and so the best way to
speak to those people is kind of in
bullet points they will my favorite line
on something like that Sam and for all
of your listeners is what you just said
as I listen to you it reminds me of or
as I listen to you it makes me think
about those things people that have
asked me to do these same things you've
asked me to do it's usually for X Y or Z
or any of those the things that are
important if they say yes then you can
ask what you said isn't anything else
but you want to have the x y&z bullet
points because it Prime's the pump now
I'll go one step farther Sam when
someone tells you what it is don't just
take that at face value and say cool and
say move on oh yeah we do that all the
time
now that you understand what the it is
like you said maybe it's web traffic
maybe it's conversion rates maybe it's
there's a lot of reasons you might want
to have a new website find out what it
is and find out if probably was two or
three of them then you know that I'd
like to invent words you saw me on net
words on a competition we're in and this
is a word that I've been using for like
ten years I can guess what what is
polarize right that's right so here's
what you do when someone says yes Sam
it's the web traffic thing great what is
it today so first what is it it's web
traffic number two what's the matte
what's the value today it's whatever it
is what do you want it to be what's the
value of the difference and five what's
the value of the difference over time
and if you slow down and you have that
and you use that constructive super easy
you don't feel like you're memorizing
something what is it what's the value
today what's the night what what is it
what's today what do you want it to be
what's the value the differential it's a
value difference over time call it two
years three years whatever not only does
it help you have a good understanding on
why they're willing to talk to you about
it but you can start creating a vision
with them of them working long term with
you that dollar izing is never about
ROI too many salespeople are saying well
if you buy my stuff this is what it'll
do for you no you still haven't talked
about what choice yet
you're talking about why is this problem
we're solving maybe its conversion rates
I don't know what it is but let's make
sure we have them talking about the
financial reason because if you do that
well Sam two things will happen your
wind rates will go up and they'll go up
significantly and your cycle time will
come down and it will come down
significantly and my favorite part it
helps you in negotiation because when
they come back towards the end and say
Sam we love everything about you but
your price is too high you can say okay
I thought I thought we were talking
about a problem it was worth this much
and then another one that was worth this
much is that still true yes okay well if
it's a five million dollar problem and
you know if you think twenty thousand
dollars there's too much to invest to
solve you know X million dollars what do
you think an appropriate investment is
love it and almost every time okay I'll
get you your money absolutely love it
and I think one point that you've made
there as well rub as well as that
process that's awesome
so that's something that we hopefully
everyone will understand and can utilize
from today as well as that I think a lot
of sales reps sales professionals and
business owners I know myself and my
younger self there's always scared to
talk money I was scared to ask the
difficult questions man so what we
should be asking these early onlet
what's your average order value what I'm
doing today where do you want to get
what's the difference why be scared to
ask if you don't know like you said when
it gets to later in the sales cycle you
can't bring this up so you can overcome
objections so easily by knowing where
where they are at today when they want
to get what the average order is it just
makes sales easy and it makes you
different because they're used to people
pitching their stuff and if you instead
spend your time understanding what both
they're in and why they're doing this
then you're gonna also get up because
you guys do enough of this stuff we're
going back to your website you know the
customer you're talking to you it may be
the first time they've bought a website
at me that they may have done something
themselves with a buddy and that you're
taking with their first professional one
they may have never bought something
like this before so they may not even
know what things to think about and so
if you ask those kinds of questions
you're gonna have opportunities to
introduce oh well this is what it is
then you also have to be thinking about
this SMS it makes it so you can be way
more insightful and way more helpful and
those are the things that create trust
it's an interesting I get asked to speak
a lot Sam and once I was asked to speak
to 2500 people on how to be a trusted
advisor and basically I mocked the term
trusted advisor the whole speech was me
mocking it because nobody could agree
what trust means if you want to have
some fun tell your tell a group of
people to write down all the synonyms of
trust and then I have have them read
them to each other and see how many
words does everybody have they're the
exact same
most of times zero match most the time
there's zero there are three words that
that usually I see how people think of
trust honest reliable helpful have
conversations that make people think
that you know you can be helpful you're
reliable and then creates opportunities
where you can demonstrate that you're
honest love it love it so we've got a
map down and absolutely rabbit hole
they're broke but I enjoyed it that was
a great conversation now moving back
into transactional versus Enterprise
we've discovered transactional pretty
nicely there in terms of taking that
shift into enterprise well I also want
to touch on is how do you stay motivated
so how do you say motivate if it deals
that are going on for months and months
that might take six months 12 months 18
months to close how do you as a business
owner or a sales rep actually keep your
eyes on the price this is where process
becomes most important transactional you
can get away with a few key things that
you do because it's transactional and
it's about flow
Enterprise you've got to start the same
way you still need to have that dollar
izing conversation you still need to
know how to help have people tell you
how to prioritize but then you're going
to look at this is going to take longer
and one of the reasons it's going to
take longer so many people are going to
be involved you're gonna have
significantly more buyers involved and
so this is why you've got to have
process step in so you here's here's my
definition for the listeners on how use
process at any kind of sales but
especially Enterprise sales to me
processes about experiences so what are
the key experiences you need to create
for a customer in order for them to be
able to buy in a well-informed and you
know as intelligently as possible and so
we say for this stage what's the goal of
the stage more important what's the
physical verifier what's the thing that
a customer does it says the goal
achieved the easy way to us to look at
that Sam is to call it a homework
assignment so if this is a stage what's
the homework that has to get turned in
to us by the by the rap by the buyer I
mean and so then your rep can say my
activities are gonna be things to set it
up so I can give the homework assignment
they will gladly accept the homework
assignment and then they will want to
give it early stage it's things like
just accepting the meeting as you get
into it it's gonna be introducing you to
buyers right getting you data so you can
create dollarized plans helping you
understand what their internal metrics
or their wheels look like and so if you
have good homework assignments all the
way through it makes it easier to keep
your eye on the prize because instead of
saying work hard or when do you think
they're gonna buy now you can work with
reps and say okay we got to do these
things to get to this homework
assignment then we go to the next stage
it's gonna be a different homework
assignment and if you have a sixth stage
deal you may have six homework
assignments and if there's two per stage
you may have 12 it makes it way easier
to stay really in the moment on what
you're trying to do I thought it's okay
yeah that makes sense they're breaking
it down into manageable chunks it sounds
like and putting into what you call
homework got it that's great
okay so we've covered some stuff great
stuff so far absolutely loving this
conversation Rob and thank you going
back to the your story we where do we
get to so are we up to you starting
point you said you were you brought in
Head of Sales for a financial company
our belief was that was there anything
else that you could share with us and
tell me before we moved to present-day
so so that story is important because
when I had all of those reps I had about
a hundred and seventy sales leaders and
I was the guy who bought Salesforce yeah
yeah and I was told very clearly if this
doesn't work Jepsen the heads gonna roll
and I promise you it won't be mine and I
got a lot of clear it was gonna be mine
and so I took that pretty seriously
because it was a pretty big expense and
what I found really fast Sam was
Salesforce or any serum for that matter
it was really good at coming in and
getting our tech in but nobody was
really good at helping me know what do I
do differently as a leader now and I
kind of felt like I had to figure it out
and so I found out fast without wasting
anybody's time it wasn't about me saying
let's go fix the reps
it was let's empower the leaders and I
found out super fast that I needed to
have the leaders be good at the
one-on-one because that's what drove the
behaviors of all those reps and so I
started inventing coaching stuff I
started like tracking and I had eight
people working for me that all we did
was look at numbers and see if we could
figure out what the great indicators
were over about a three more year period
of time I invented a pretty interesting
way of coaching that was data-driven and
a number of things and what happened was
this 150 old company immediately started
setting records immediately we won sales
forces award is the number one instance
of the world for using Salesforce to win
new business I want a bunch of awards
from the American Business Awards our
turnover turn was cut in half we got up
to 70 percent of our reps hitting goal
which is amazing and Salesforce came to
me and said you need to take that system
and turn it into a piece of tech go to
it and then I started exponent and
ex-boy is a play on words clairvoyant is
a magical person that can predict the
future right we say that nobody needs to
predict the future more than a Sales
Leader but we don't think there's any
magic required if you understand
execution you can create very strong
predictability and predict the future
through execution and so that's what we
do I took that system that was really
battle tested we turn it into a piece of
tech and now I run this company where we
work with sales teams of all sizes some
transactional and small some Enterprise
and big and we help them take their
sales process and build coaching process
around it at scale and it has been like
my life's work it's been something I'm
passionate about
I love the sales community Sam as you
know and for me there's nothing more fun
than talking to a Sales Leader about how
we can help them get higher percent to
goal you know all kinds of other of
metrics and that's my story man is
everything set me up to to start this
I've done every sales job I've been a
leader in a small companies I've been
leaders in the big company I consult
with them I literally have thousands of
managers that I get to work with all the
time in helping them do one thing and
that's give their reps one-on-ones that
the reps
thank for great story man and I
absolutely love that and I loved it the
fact that you took from your previous
company that you were implementing these
techniques in terms of sales leadership
you built the software as advised and
then started your own Co so that's great
now we'd love to learn some of the
strategies that you've utilized to scale
exploit to where it is today so how long
has the company been running robb and
how did you scare it up was it difficult
our ears oh yeah get hard hey listen
starting your own company sounds really
cool and it is it's it's exciting but
it's you know three times harder it'll
cost three times more money and it'll
take three times longer than you think
and that's best case and yeah it's hard
it's scary I mean I I didn't want to go
raise a bunch of venture capital at the
shoot because for a lot of reasons I
just I went and I started I went and I
hit my old company that financial
institution first and they were my first
customer they knew the system worked and
they had Salesforce and so we dropped it
into their Salesforce system and I have
an enterprise customer before it was
even really battle-tested uh-huh yeah I
mean they were patient with me I gave
him a really good deal but it gave me a
good customer and and it was awesome
that we did that my my tech team was mad
at me they wanted me to take a few
smaller companies first that would give
us chances to get the kinks out but
we're not big I guess that's one of the
things that I would say is if you're
gonna be a founder Sam if you want to
start your own company if you're not
thinking big you probably shouldn't do
it because nothing iconic was ever built
by just thinking about risk management
you gotta swing hard and and and you
know swing for the fence and so yeah we
started big and once I had one big one
then I went got another one I got I got
someone with 3,000 sales reps that was
able and bought it yeah right there was
our second customer right on the shoot
and and so that gave me some cash flow
and I started to hire some people around
it to build my team and then you know I
and then we started to kind of grow and
so early on it was just my pure
salesmanship I wasn't sold I'd been the
enterprise guy forever I leveraged a
relationship to get off the ground then
I went to someone else that had a
similar organizational structure it
wasn't another
financial institution but their size and
their organizational structure was
similar that's that's one of my very
favorite ways to scale it's not just
it's not just vertical market but its
board structure and the reason org
structure is a fun way to scale is you
can start having people collaborate with
each other that are not repetitive like
if I just draw on the banks they may not
want to collaborate with each other but
as I found people on different orgs
structures with that same org structure
and different verticals I started to
create a community of customers if that
makes sense
yeah and and that was good because what
I found for better for worse Sam was the
problem that my company is really good
at solving people feel it more acutely
when they have lots of reps if they have
lots of reps that are geographically
dispersed they felt the pain more
acutely than if it was just a five or
six person sales team that they're all
in the same room together right and so
so that was that was key and so I
started with salesmanship and and then I
started to build this community and what
I found was they were willing to help me
and I'm not afraid to ask for referrals
I learned that early on and so I did I
asked my customers for referrals and
because here's one of the things that I
think a lot of salespeople and
entrepreneurs don't think about Sam yep
you're customers that have invested
money and in those two they spent a lot
of money it wasn't like you know if I
brand it was a lot of money they spent
they want you to win they've invested in
you they need you to win they they don't
want to be your only customer they don't
want their money to be the book keeps
you alive they want your money to be
what buys you your freaking car the plan
right they want you to win and so if you
can be someone that understands them you
get them you deliver what you say you
will they gladly will introduce you to
their counterparts in other places and I
have won so many deals because I have
involved my customers and either
introducing them to me or having them
participate along the way to help answer
questions and your customers want you to
win and you can't overuse it you can't
use it every day so if you use it
strategically they're happy to do that
love it love it so left from the start
it sounds like you leverage your
existing relationship so the previous
companies work that brought those on
board at an early stage and also utilize
referrals to gain your business and then
what idea that was that was the axe the
tactical stuff that we did you know and
then I hired some salespeople and I
started calling people and we did the
kind of stuff there but to give it to
the marketing because yours is more of a
marketing show you know I I think we did
some smart things there I I tried to
instead of like just do paid ads and
stuff like that that most you know quite
often that just falls on deaf ears and
it becomes a numbers game it's you know
frequency times reach and that has its
place but as an entrepreneur I didn't
have unlimited budget that I could just
feel frequency times reach I wanted to
take like special forces one shot one
kill approach if that makes sense and
yeah and so I I found ways to to put
myself in front of large organizations
like Dreamforce
Salesforce has me speak all the time so
when I don't speak at Dreamforce that
first year they had me go speak and I'd
already been speaking because I'd been
their customer and I was like I'd won
this award they put me in front of
people but when I started this thing
they let me keep speaking and in that
first year when I spoke at Dreamforce
I got five deals from that and it cost
me nothing I got five deals yeah and so
I was like oh I want to do more of that
and so I speak quite a bit and and
almost every time I here's what's
interesting Sam I never pitch X more
ever when I speak I don't have any
pictures of my tech in my slides I don't
talk about what we do we talk about
solving very specific problems and then
give customer examples of how we know
customers that we've worked out I've
solved them and then there's lying like
70 or 80 people out the door wanting to
talk to me about how we could do the
same thing for them I'll never forget it
I had a stack of business cards and I
looked at this line of people that
wanted to talk to me and had a guy that
was there working with me he took my
cards and he just went in lines I here's
Rob's car if you don't want to wait and
that first Dreamforce got us off the
ground
now I speak I don't know 40 or 50 times
a year at different things excuse the
pun rope but that sounds like the dream
having prospects lining up to talk to
you yeah but see but that's because
Salesforce has people lining up because
they want to get more out of Salesforce
oh I was helping Salesforce because they
were introducing best practices on how
to make Salesforce work for them
and I wasn't pitching and it's funny
like people in my company like row they
look at my deck like Rob you don't pitch
the company anywhere I know and that's
why it's gonna work and and so I found
that in marketing if you can showcase
instead of telling people that you're
great you'll demonstrate what you do
without saying I'm the biggest I'm the
best give them a chance to see it that
was a big one so starting to speak and
so I I got surrounded with some people
and had some advisors that had
opportunities to create more speaking
and and so I I say yes to that whenever
I can and I don't get deals every time
but it's like 90 percent of the time
when I speak something happens for our
business and and so that was cool and
right now what's happening I'll give you
another example of this idea of
marketing through your strengths instead
of marketing through your product we
were in the middle of the pandemic and
when that first started I reached out to
I don't know a couple hundred of my
customers in 52 countries around the
world
I spent time talking to these 200 sales
leaders finding out where they were and
I took all of these things and I found
that they were one or two camps people
are either in crisis survival or crisis
management mode or they are in crisis
recovery and crisis growth mode and what
I found was the people that were growing
we're doing four specific things and the
people that weren't then we're doing
those things I turned it into a seminar
and now I'm offering that seminar for
free to sales organizations it's not
just a webinar that people come to if
you want it I will do it live over zoom
for you with all your sales leaders and
then Q&A afterwards and none of it's
about selling excellent but it's been
it's put me in touch with so many sales
works and then that's led to other or
stuff like that so my marketing has
always been about trying to find ways to
show impact without pushing product
really love that really love that
and that's that's something that I'd say
rings through quite a bit too digital as
well so what you've said there
especially in terms of putting together
I'd cool effect of LinkedIn posts so the
posts that actually talk about stories
or talk about ways that you've helped
people or weave in different ways that
your product perhaps utilize techniques
to great people's business but not
talking about the product itself I'll
give you another marketing tool that we
did that's in that same vein and you're
doing it right now you have an awesome
podcast and it's about growth and you're
you're not jamming your product on
people you're you've got a show that's
helping them grow I started the sales
leadership podcast we're excited you're
gonna be a guest on it and we don't talk
about excellent anywhere what I do is I
bring in best sales leaders in the world
and we lay out blueprints on how do you
have success as a Sales Leader and and
and stuff like that I found that the
more I try to push my product that you
know I get industry averages on that but
I'm way more effective when I find ways
to market through my strengths rather
than market through my product love it
love it
awesome we've covered good ground Rob
and what we do like to ask on the show
is if there's anyone tuning in this
thinking of taking the leap and starting
their own business or for anyone's
recently started their own business are
there any golden tips or golden nuggets
of advice you could share first of all
someone says they got a golden nugget
run like hell because everybody's deals
different surround what I will say
surround yourself with people that have
walked the path that you've walked
before or one of the best things that
I've done is I found people that have
walked the road that I'm trying now they
haven't done with my product and they
haven't solved my problem but they've
created a structure and they've had an
exit like I want to have like for
instance a good one for me as Doug
Landis I did not know Doug Landis Doug
Landis is an amazing person your
listeners should follow him and he
hasn't walked the road
he's helped lots of people and that guy
man he has been a difference maker for
me and so surrounding yourself with
people who have walked the road because
they'll help you see around corners that
you don't even know there's a corner
coming and they'll tell you that not
only is it coming to help you see
that's one of the first ones because as
an entrepreneur you're gonna have to
deal with stuff that you did not plan
for okay and so that would be my first
thing second thing is sales solves
almost every problem if you need more
invested investor funds go sell some
more stuff because I know that's if you
need a better healthcare plan for your
employees you'll sell something you paid
them more go sell something founders
there's a lot of technical founders and
they rely on product I was a sales
founder and I needed to rely on other
people to build my product for me but I
will tell you if you're a founder don't
just don't be comfortable handing the
sales function over to someone and cross
your fingers and hope that they'll get
it done right the most important thing
to get right is can you commercialize
your idea there is a graveyard of
companies that had great ideas that
never commercialized them make sure
you're getting that right now you know
and then the third thing I would say is
marketing and demand is something that I
overlooked early and I think it was a
big mistake if I was to ask your
listeners this ask you Sam let me turn
around that interview now it's a would
you rather have the very best product in
the world at what you do with an only
okay demand or would you rather have an
average product with ass-kickin demand
average course you would easy so like it
sound easier yeah exactly
because sale solves all problems almost
all doesn't solve embezzlement okay but
it's almost every other problem okay and
so so soon to many times founders are
trying to just get that product so
perfect people are gonna buy your
product for like 20 percent of what it
does let's be honest think about Excel
you know there's so many things that
sell does that I can't do but 20 percent
that I get that I'd use it for is why I
bought it I don't need to use pivot
tables and all that kind of other
people will do that for me and so keep
in mind what are the twenty percent that
people are gonna buy your product for
and make sure that is good the rest if
you got like time and money lying around
with nothing else to do that's fine but
don't get so caught up in your product
that you lose track of what's it's going
to do as you commercialize it love it
rope and see quickfire
to wrap things up are there any habits
that you've got Rob that you follow on a
daily basis that you think people should
be following to be a success or those
how do you sweat every day get up and
get sweating every day I'm telling you
the days that I like don't get up and
sweat first hour days that I get tired
in the afternoon I mean that's that's
important man I mean I one of my biggest
mistakes I made Sam is I got so all in
on my company I let everything else go
to hell I let my personal health go to
hell I let family relationships go to
hell
and you are not your company I mean too
many times entrepreneurs define
themselves I am my company I made that
mistake and I paid dearly for it so
that's first one sweat everyday the
other thing that I would say is have a
plan for the day don't just show up a
work hard it's easy to do as an
entrepreneur it's easy to say I got so
much to do but I would time block get
good at time blocking and I can do this
for 45 minutes and then I'm going to
take a break and I'm gonna do this for
an hour make sure you have time to do it
all because if you plan you can do it
all and time blocking is something that
people might think is just basic but
honestly Sam there aren't silver bullets
if you do the basics right you'll get
there and the last thing I'd say is
there's only one way to guarantee
there's only one way I can promise you
that you'll lose is if you're an
entrepreneur and that's just if you quit
and so it's gonna be hard it's gonna be
harder than you think just don't ever
stop because you can find a way through
and the only thing that guarantees that
you're not going to be successful is if
you stop
so don't find a way to get through love
it brings us back to what you said a
start work harder than everyone else in
the room and like just like yourself I
think we're very similar in some ways
that I'm not the smartest guy but I'm
willing to work my ass off and my fiancé
hates me Farrell that's true you gotta
watch out for that because it screwed me
up I had twenty four year marriage that
that died because I made my company more
important than anything else go to get
the balance right that's it that's it
man
okay Rob what's one thing that
businesses should be doing with digital
marketing that's gonna benefit them from
today that is a great question what's
one thing you know this is going to be a
little nebulous because I'm not an
expert like you are a digital
I'm enough to be dangerous but if I try
to be an expert you'll you'll kill
you'll shine a light on me and show me
as a fraud so what for me it is how do i
showcase my strengths rather than my
product and and there's a lot of ways to
do it
podcasting is good way to do it case
studies are a good way to do it you know
in digital marketing that I would create
interactive experiences where people are
able to have ah ha moments on how your
strengths can help them do something
they care about and the more creative
you can be at that the better
I would advise find ways to create it
create an experience one of the things
we do is we actually have a calculator
that very visually shows them
what's coaching worth what's the value
of 10% improvement a company like you
like this Sam if you put in how many
reps you have what your win rate is and
what your average deal size and then you
hit you know what what you want your
coaching plan to look like it'll
actually spread your people out it will
show um how many are hitting goal how
many aren't people like how did you know
like we we do this with so many people
we know like with the typical
distribution is and they look at that
and they're able to see what happens if
they sort their people or move them up
or down we've got so much business as
people play with that create experiences
that can silence a is making an
experience that's something that makes
them say I figured out why Sam can help
me because Sam didn't have to tell me
because crea experience sorry that's
awesome I love that man I rope and if
you could thank just one person in a
dead or life having a positive influence
on yourself and your career here would
that be and we're so I would be wrong if
I didn't thank my parents you know my
dad taught me the what was like to be
around innovation I still think he
should have gone on his own but after
that it's Gary Rhodes he's a co-founder
of my company I met him when I was in
the university he put his arm around me
that man has done more for me than
anyone else he's helped me get jobs he's
something to get customers he's helped
me through the greatest trials in my
life and if there's one thing I'd finish
with so you're two people don't forget
about those people who love you most and
care about you most because it's easy to
have acquaintances it's easy to have
colleagues but it's very hard to have
people who genuinely care no matter what
don't ever lose track of those people
thanks for uh well everyone you've been
tuning into Sam's business Creepshow
well we sit down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
we find out their story how digital
marketing is helping along the way and I
excuse of tips and insights to help you
skyrocket your business Rob tell us how
people can connect with yourself tell us
a little bit more about your company and
the best way to get in touch ex-boy is
really easy man where x.18 calm and it's
xvo why amt sounds like clairvoyant but
there's no magic hit me on LinkedIn I
connect with everyone that I can I put
out a lot of content none of its pitchy
it's all about sales leadership and and
that that's the easiest way for me man
and Linkedin and come to our website and
and if you have a sales team and you
would like to get more with what you
have call me and if I can if I can give
you any advice I will and I can promise
you I won't sell anything to you unless
you say you want to also man you've got
a great podcast as well the sales
leadership podcast so make sure they
check that one out Rob thanks so much
thanks Sam love being with you thanks
for all you do for our community cheers
dude are you tired of constantly hunting
for new customers you could be missing
out on regular inbound opportunities all
because your website isn't on the first
page of Google perhaps already spending
lots of money on advertising but your
website is failing to convert all of
your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow of new customers if
you'd like to learn more about our
unusual approach that brings ideal
clients straight to you connect with Sam
Dunning on LinkedIn or book a free 20
minute consultation by a web choice UK
com that's web choice UK com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts